Two young women, Sue and Johnsy, lived in New York. They were artists. Johnsy’s real name was Joanna. In November it was very cold and Johnsy fell ill. She had a pneumonia, a decease that killed many people. Johnsy lay on her bed and looked through the small window. She could see only the brick wall of the house next to her building. In the morning a doctor examined Johnsy and took her temperature. Then he spoke with Sue in another room. «Your friend thinks that she is not going to get well. That’s why she has very few chances. I can’t help her. When my patient loses hope, medicines don’t work.» After the doctor left, Sue cried. Then she put on a cheerful smile and went to Johnsy’s. Johnsy lay with her face toward the window. Sue went up to her bed. Johnsy’s eyes were open wide. She was looking out the window and counting: «twelve, eleven, ten, nine, eight… Sue looked out the window, too. What was there to count? There was only the wall of the house seven meters away. An old ivy vine climbed up the wall. Its almost bare branches hung on the bricks. An old ivy vine climbed up the wall. Its almost bare branches hung on the bricks. — Пожелтевший плющ карабкался по стене. Его полуголые ветви цеплялись за кирпичи. «What is it, dear?» asked Sue. «Six,» said Johnsy, quietly. «They’re falling faster now. Three days ago there were almost a hundred. But now it’s easy. There goes another one. There are only five left now.» There goes another one. — Вот еще один полетел. «Five what, dear?» asked Sue. «Leaves. On the plant. When the last one falls, I must go, too. Didn’t the doctor tell you?» «Oh, I never heard of such a thing,» said Sue. «Don’t be silly. The doctor told me this morning that you were getting better. Your chances are ten to one! Try to eat some soup now, please..» Johnsy  kept looking out the window. «There goes another one. No, I don’t want any soup. There were just four leaves left. I want to see the last one fall before it gets dark. Then I’ll go, too.» «Johnsy, dear,» said Sue, «promise me not to look out the window for a while. I must finish my drawing by tomorrow.» Johnsy closed her eyes. She lay white and still. «I want to see the last leaf fall. I’m tired of waiting. I’m tired of thinking. I want to fall down, down, just like one of those poor, tired leaves.» «Try to sleep until I come back,» said Sue. «I must call Mister Behrman to be my model for my drawing.»
