He looked around. Except for one or two dark wet stains on the white wall, there was nothing at all strange in that place. Valentin called the waiter and asked him to taste the sugar. The waiter was half-asleep, but he woke up when he tasted the sugar.

‘Do you play this joke on your customers every morning?’ asked Valentin. The waiter did not know what to say. Then, suddenly, he said, ‘It was the two priests.’

‘What two priests?’ said Valentin.

‘The two priests who threw soup at the wall over there,’ replied the waiter.

Valentin looked again at the dark wet stains.

‘The two of them came in and drank soup here very early this morning,’ the waiter explained. ‘They were both very quiet. One of them paid the bill and went out. The other took several more minutes to get his things together. Then he picked up his cup, which was only half empty, and threw it at the wall. I was in the back room, but I ran out to find the restaurant empty. I tried to catch them in the street, but they were too far away. They went round the corner into Carstairs Street.’

The detective jumped to his feet, put on his hat, and paid his bill. A moment later, he was outside.

He walked round into the next street. Although he was excited and in a hurry, Valentin saw something in the front of a shop that made him stop. The shop sold fruit, and then were some oranges and some nuts at the front. They each had cards with writing on them. The card on the nuts said ‘Best oranges, two for a penny.’ The card on the oranges said: ‘Best nuts, four pence for a bag.

Valentin looked at the two cards. ‘I’ve seen this kind of joke before,’ he thought.

He told the man in the shop about the cards. The man said nothing, but he put the cards in the right places.

‘Can I ask you a question?’ said Valentin. ‘If two cards in a shop are in the wrong places, how are they like a priest’s hat that has come to London for a holiday? Or, why do nuts that are said to be oranges make me think of two priests, one tall and the other short?’

The man in the shop looked angry. ‘Are you a friend of theirs?’ he said. ‘If you are, you can tell them that I’ll bang their stupid heads together if they knock over my apples again!’

‘Did they knock over your apples?’ asked the detective.

‘One of them did,’ said the man.

‘Which way did they go?’ asked Valentin.

‘Up that second road on the left-hand side, and then across the square,’ answered the man.

‘Thanks,’ said Valentin, and hurried away. On the other side of the second square, he found a policeman. ‘Have you seen two priests?’ he asked.

The policeman laughed. ‘I have, sir. One of them stood in the middle of the road, dropping parcels everywhere.’

‘Which way did they go?’ asked Valentin.

‘They went on one of those yellow buses over there,’ answered the policeman. ‘Those that go to Hampstead.’ Valentin told the policeman who he was, then said, ‘Call two of your men to come with me.’

In two minutes, an inspector and another detective arrived. ‘Well, sir,’ began the inspector. ‘How..?’

‘I’ll tell you on the top of that bus,’ said Valentin.

When the three of them were sitting on the top seats, the inspector said, ‘A taxi is quicker.’

‘True,’ said Valentin. ‘But we don’t know where we’re going. All we can do is look for some strange thing.’

‘What kind of strange thing?’ asked the inspector.

‘Any kind of strange thing,’ replied Valentin. The yellow bus went slowly up the roads to the north of the city. The French detective became quiet. Lunch-time came and went, and the long roads seemed to go on for ever. Valentin sat silently and watched everything that went by. The two other detectives were almost asleep when he suddenly shouted. They quickly followed Valentin off the bus without knowing why.

‘Over there!’ said Valentin. ‘The place with the broken window!’ He was looking at a restaurant. It had a large window with a hole in the middle of the glass.

‘How do we know that the window has anything to do with them?’ asked the inspector.

Valentin became angry. ‘Know?’ he said. ‘We can’t know. But don’t you understand? We must either follow one wild chance, or go home to bed.’

They followed him into the restaurant where the three of them ate a meal at a small table. Valentin looked at the little star of broken glass, but learned nothing from it.

‘Your window is broken,’ he said, paying his bill.

‘Yes, sir,’ replied the waiter. ‘It was very strange how it happened.’

‘Tell me,’ said Valentin.

‘Two of those priests came in,’ said the waiter. ‘Those foreign priests who are in the city at the moment. They had a cheap and quiet little lunch, and one of them paid for it and went out. The other was just going to follow him when I realized something. «Wait!» I said to the one who was nearly out of the door. «You’ve paid too much.» And I picked up the bill to show him. But I got a surprise.’

‘What do you mean?’ asked Valentin.

‘I was sure that I’d put four shillings on that bill,’ said the waiter. ‘But now I saw that it was fourteen.’

‘Then what happened?’ said Valentin.

‘The priest at the door said, «That will pay for the window.» «What window?» I asked. «The one that I’m going to break,» he said. And he broke the window with his umbrella! I went after him, but I wasn’t quick enough. They went up Bullock Street so fast, I couldn’t catch them.’

‘Bullock Street!’ said Valentin, and he ran up that road as quickly as the strange pair that he was following. Their journey took them through dark, narrow streets, and the inspector guessed that they would finally reach some part of Hampstead Heath. Suddenly, Valentin stopped in front of a small, brightly-lit sweet-shop. After a moment, he went inside and bought some chocolate. He began to ask the shop woman a question, but she spoke first.

She saw the inspector behind him and immediately said. ‘If you’re the police and you’ve come about that parcel, I’ve already sent it off.’

‘Parcel!’ repeated Valentin.

‘I mean the parcel that the priest left,’ said the woman.

‘Quickly!’ said Valentin. ‘Tell us what happened!’

‘They came in half an hour ago,’ said the woman. ‘They bought some sweets, and then went off towards the Heath. Then one ran back into the shop and said, «Did I leave a parcel?» I looked around but couldn’t see one. He said. «Never mind. But if you do find it, please send it to this address.» He left the address, and a shilling for me. But after he went, I looked again and found that there was a parcel, so I posted it. I can’t remember the address now, but it was somewhere in Westminster.’

‘Is Hampstead Heath near here?’ asked Valentin. ‘Straight on for fifteen minutes,’ said the woman. Valentin hurried out and began to run. The others followed him. The street they we