Old Behrman was a painter who lived on the ground floor of the same building. Behrman was a failure in art. He earned a little money being a model to artists. Sue found Behrman in his room. He was sitting and looking at a blank canvas in front of him.  Sue told him about Johnsy. «She is very sick and weak,» said Sue, «and her mind is full of strange ideas. She thinks that she will die when the last leaf falls.» «What a foolishness! To die because leaves drop off a vine? Why do you let that silly idea come in her head?» cried old Behrman. Johnsy was sleeping when they came. They looked out the window at the ivy vine. A cold rain was falling, mixed with snow. Then Sue pulled the shade down to cover the window. They looked at each other without speaking. Then Sue pulled the shade down to cover the window. — Затем Сью опустила на окно штору. The next morning Sue found Johnsy with wide-open eyes, looking at the covered window. «Pull up the shade; I want to see,» she said, quietly. Sue obeyed. The rain and strong wind that blew through the night but there was one ivy leaf left. It was the last leaf on the vine. It hung bravely on the branch about seven meters above the ground, still dark green at the center and yellow at its sides. «It is the last one,» said Johnsy. «I thought it would fall during the night. I heard the wind. It will fall today and I shall die at the same time.» «Dear, dear! Think of me, if you don’t think of yourself. What will I do?» But Johnsy did not answer. The next morning Johnsy looked at the window but the ivy leaf was still there. She lay for a long time, looking at it. Then she called Sue, who was cooking chicken soup. «I’ve been a bad girl,» said Johnsy. » It is wrong to want to die. You may bring me a little soup now.» Later in the day, the doctor came, and Sue talked to him in the hall. «She is better,» said the doctor. «With good care, you’ll win. And now I must see another patient, I have in your building. Behrman, an artist.  He had a pneumonia, too. He is an old, weak man. There is no hope for him.» Later that day, Sue came up to the bed where Johnsy lay, and said to her. «I have something to tell you, dear,» she said. «Mister Behrman died of pneumonia today. He was sick only two days.  They found him last morning in his room. His shoes and clothes were completely wet and icy cold. They could not imagine where he had been on such a terrible night. And then they found a lantern and a ladder. And paints and brushes, and a painting board with green and yellow colors mixed on it. Look out the window, dear, at the last ivy leaf on the wall. Didn’t you wonder why it never moved when the wind blew? Ah, darling, it is Behrman’s masterpiece – he painted it that night when the last leaf fell.»
