I was returning home by train one day, after a visit to some friends. There were two people sitting opposite me, a man and a woman. The woman got out at a station not far from my home. Then a man got in and sat beside the one who was already there. They seemed to know each other.
They talked quietly for some minutes, and it was impossible to hear what they said. But I only had to look at their faces. I was reading a magazine and looked up to see the first man say something which surprised me.
‘…Myrtle Cottage. It’s got a large myrtle tree in the front garden.’
The other man said something in a low voice, but his face was turned away from me. The first man replied, and I read his lips again. ‘His name is Colegate, and he uses it as a summer cottage. He’s got some of the best old silver in England.’
The other man shook his head and turned so I could see his face. I saw him say: ‘Old silver is no better than new. You can only melt it.’
The first man’s face became red. ‘Only melt it! Don’t be stupid! I can sell old silver at good prices. And that silver in Myrtle Cottage must be worth more than a thousand pounds. There’s a silver salt-cellar worth at least a hundred.’
The other man looked at me while I was watching his friend speak. He had fair hair and blue eyes. ‘That child is watching us,’ he whispered. ‘Be careful.’
The look in those blue eyes began to frighten me.
The first man said, ‘Let her watch, she can’t hear us.’
I was alone with them, and I was quite small. So I looked back at my magazine instead of watching the rest of their conversation. I knew Myrtle Cottage because it was not very far from our own cottage. And I knew Mr Colegate, and about his old silver. I knew the silver salt-cellar the two men spoke about, and wondered why they were interested in it. I was very young. I did not think: ‘These two men who speak in whispers may not be honest.’
They both got out at the station before our village.

After tea that evening, I went for a walk without telling Mrs Dickson. My walk took me past Myrtle Cottage. It was small, and there were no other houses near it. I knew that Mr Colegate was away, but when I went into the garden, I saw that the front-room window was open. I looked inside. What I saw surprised me very much.
In the room was the first man from the train. All of Mr Colegate’s silver was on the table in front of him, and he was holding the silver salt-cellar. I did not know what to think. What was he doing there? What should I do? I was still trying to decide when a hand went round my throat.