 When I was quite young, my family had one of the first telephones in our neighborhood. I remember well the polished oak case fastened to the wall on the lower stair landing. The shiny receiver hung on the side of the box. I even remembered the number — 105. I was too little to reach the telephone, but used to listen with fascination when my mother talked into it. Once she lifted me up to speak to my father, who was away on business. Magic! Then I discovered that somewhere inside that wonderful device lived an amazing person — her name was «Information Please» and there was nothing that she did not know. My mother could ask her for anybody’s number and when our clock ran down, Information Please immediately supplied the correct time.

My first personal experience with this genie-in-the-receiver came one day while my mother was visiting a neighbor. Amusing myself at the tool bench in the basement, I whacked my finger with a hammer. The pain was terrible, but there didn’t seem to be of much use crying because there was no one home to offer sympathy. I walked around the house sucking my throbbing finger, finally arriving at the stairway. The telephone! Quickly, I ran for the footstool in the parlor and dragged it to the landing. Climbing up, I unhooked the receiver and held it to my ear. «Information Please,» I said into the mouthpiece just above my head. A click or two, and a small clear voice spoke into my ear. «Information.» «I hurt my fingerrr—» I wailed into the phone. The tears came readily enough now that I had an audience. «Isn’t your mother home?» came the question. «Nobody’s at home but me,» I blubbered. «Are you bleeding?». «No», I replied. «I hit it with the hammer and it hurts». «Can you open your icebox?» she asked. I said I could. «Then chip off a little piece of ice and hold it on your finger. That will stop the hurt. Be careful when you use the ice pick,» she admonished. «And don’t cry. You’ll be alright».

After that, I called Information Please for everything. I asked for help with my Geography and she told me where Philadelphia was, and the Orinco — the romantic river I was going to explore when I grew up. She helped me with my Arithmetic, and she told me that a pet chipmunk — I had caught him in the park just that day before — would eat fruits and nuts. And there was the time that Petey, our pet canary, died. I called Information Please and told her the sad story. She listened, then said the usual things grown-up say to soothe a child. But I was unconsoled. Why was it that birds should sing so beautifully and bring joy to whole families, only to end as a heap of feathers feet up, on the bottom of a cage? She must have sensed my deep concern, for she quietly said, «Paul, always remember that there are other worlds to sing in.» Somehow, I felt better.

Another day I was at the telephone. «Information,» said the now familiar voice. «How do you spell fix?». F-I-X.» At that instant my sister, who took unholy joy in scaring me, jumped off the stairs at me with a banshee shriek — «Yaaaaaaaaaa!» I fell off the stool, pulling the receiver out of the box by its roots. We were both terrified — Information Please was no longer there, and I was not at all sure that I hadn’t hurt her when I pulled the receiver out. Minutes later, there was a man on the porch. «I’m a telephone repairman. I was working down the street and the operator said there might be some trouble at this number.» He reached for the receiver in my hand. «What happened?» I told him. «Well, we can fix that in a minute or two.» He opened the telephone box exposing a maze of wires and coils, and fiddled for a while with the end of the receiver cord, tightened things with a small screwdriver. He jiggled the hook up and down a few times, then spoke into the phone. «Hi, this is Pete. Everything’s under control at 105. The kid’s sister scared him and he pulled the cord out of the box.» He hung up, smiled, gave me a pat on the head and walked out the door.