All this took place in a small town in the Pacific Northwest. Then, when I was nine years old, we moved across the country to Boston-and I missed my mentor acutely. Information Please belonged in that old wooden box back at home, and I somehow never thought of trying the tall, skinny new phone that sat on the small table in the hall. Yet, as I grew into my teens, the memories of those childhood conversation never really left me; often in moments of doubt and perplexity I would recall the serene sense of security I had when I know that I could call Information Please and get the right answer. I appreciated now how very patient, understanding and kind she was to have wasted her time on a little boy.

A few years later, on my way back to college, my plane put down in Seattle. I had about half an hour between plane connections, and I spent 15 minutes or so on the phone with my sister who lived there now, happily mellowed by marriage and motherhood. Then, really without thinking what I was doing, I dialed my hometown operator and said, «Information Please.» Miraculously, I heard again the small, clear voice that I know so well:»Information.» I hadn’t planned this, but I heard myself saying, «Could you tell me, please, how to spell the word ‘fix’?» There was a long pause. Then came the softly spoken answer. «I guess,» said Information Please, «that your finger must have healed by now.» I laughed. «So it’s really still you. I wonder if you have any idea how much you meant to me during all that time…» «I wonder,» she replied, «if you know how much you meant to me? I never had any children, and I used to look forward to your calls. Silly, wasn’t it?» It didn’t seem silly, but I didn’t say so. Instead I told her how often I had thought of her over the years, and I asked if I could call her again when I come back to visit my sister when the semester was over. «Please do. Just ask for Sally.» «Goodbye Sally.» It sounded strange for Information Please to have a name. «If I run into any chipmunks, I’ll tell them to eat fruits and nuts.» «Do that,» she said. «And I expect one of these days you’ll be off for the Orinoco. Well, good-bye.»

Just three months later, I was back again at the Seattle airport. A different voice answered, «Information,» and I asked for Sally. «Are you a friend?» «Yes,» I said. «An old friend.» «Then I’m sorry to have to tell you. Sally had only been working part-time in the last few years because she was ill. She died five weeks ago.» But before I could hang up, she said, «Wait a minute. Did you say your name was Villard?» «Yes.» «Well, Sally left a message for you. She wrote it down.» «What was it?» I asked, almost knowing in advance what it would be. «Here it is, I’ll read it: ‘Tell him I still say there are other worlds to sing in. He’ll know what I mean.'»

I thanked her and hung up. I did know what Sally meant.